Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
LG Aristo 2: Hi, how are you
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm doing great, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me a little bit. I did just a tiny little snoop just to try and get a little bit of information about maybe some things that were kind of contextually going on in your life to looking at a prior note from Jessica.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where am I finding right now are you at home. Are you at work where you out right now.
LG Aristo 2: I'm at home right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Beautiful. So let's do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's still lots to learn about each other as far as like expectations. I'm probably going to be quite different from Jessica. I'm been doing therapy for over 20 years so I can dive into whatever
LG Aristo 2: That's good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so really excited to work with you and but one thing that I will ask is, I'm going to need your hands free
LG Aristo 2: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: See if we can. And you can take us on find a little place to have it propped up
Gwenevere Abriel: The future, you can find a more
LG Aristo 2: Elegant
Gwenevere Abriel: Way, or maybe in a month from now where there's little book or a plate or something that's sort of holding it steady, so that you had your hands free
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why is because what I've noticed
Gwenevere Abriel: That's been most effective is for people that have any kind of complex trauma.
Or development.
Gwenevere Abriel: The talking the talk therapy is nice, but it doesn't it doesn't really
LG Aristo 2: Feel like I know
Gwenevere Abriel: Trauma that seems to be coming aware, that's interesting in our sleep that feels like we're we're emotionally. We're angry right away and like there was like no chance to even think before we yelled at someone or got pissed off or whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I've noticed is the
Gwenevere Abriel: therapeutic interventions that have been effective are more experiential so there might be times when you're going to need like to be standing with me or sitting
Gwenevere Abriel: In a chair here in a chair there. Or we might be doing if you're open to it. Some of the EMT our work once we do lots of preparation. First, but so my point is
Gwenevere Abriel: This is probably going to feel very much as if you were in office so you, you really want to have it quiet, no one around and really protect that environment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take where you left off and
Maybe concern.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can introduce myself and could start there. And then we'll kind of kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Move forward.
LG Aristo 2: Mosey into it. Okay. Sounds good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh of course you know I'm in Florida Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and doing it over 20 years very into have been drawn to the field of addiction. The whole time love working with folks struggling with it. I, I think it's because there's no
Gwenevere Abriel: single answer to it, it just continues to be so individualized
LG Aristo 2: And I kind of like that challenge.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, that's good. Well, that's like me. I was in nursing for 25 plus years. And I just, I went to a gas station job now because I just
LG Aristo 2: I got burned down. Oh, I was really burnt out on it.
LG Aristo 2: Let me tell you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I that that position of a nurse is something I mean you never get validation never get recognition, you're basically doing the doctor's job. I mean, I just, I'm in awe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you for taking care of
LG Aristo 2: Yeah. Well, I did home. Well, I'd like I said 25 plus years, but I just, I couldn't do it. And so now I'm learning to get along with people at the gas station.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, so it's been a struggle kind of there, but I've been learning, just to take a deep breath, just walk away, keep busy and just kind of do my own thing.
LG Aristo 2: Learning how to cope with it a little bit better. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I heard is, um, deep breath, keep busy right distraction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Those are really useful coping techniques. Absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so this this job and the gas station is a new one.
LG Aristo 2: Mm hmm. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see if we can find. Take your time. I'm gonna go open up a note and kind of look around there. A little bit. Look around your room and see if you can find a bookcase even a cupboard in the kitchen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just taking it.
LG Aristo 2: Right. Let me see where I could put it. I'm wondering if in the other room. I have the table right can sit and do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But really, no pressure. Take your time. It's more important that we
Gwenevere Abriel: Get this so that you can completely because there's going to be times we'll focus on the soma soma, the body and if your hands are busy. We welcome you all to kind of have those free
LG Aristo 2: Okay.
LG Aristo 2: Take your time to see if I can go to the other room and see if I have a stand.
LG Aristo 2: Up.
LG Aristo 2: It got so cold here last night.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, oh four degrees. Yeah.
LG Aristo 2: Wow freezing. So we had wonder if I can do sideways. Oh, there we go.
LG Aristo 2: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that is good.
LG Aristo 2: That is just turn it
Gwenevere Abriel: Turn it about an inch down. I want to see more because. Okay, that's beautiful fantastic day
LG Aristo 2: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to get more out of it this way to truly because it will feel more like it's not like a phone call, like, Hey, what's up, it'll feel more like this is a therapeutic environment right
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so what I've heard is
Gwenevere Abriel: This job this job. It's really something's going on. I see people you're working with. Am I hearing. Yeah.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, well, yeah, I, I've had to really keep my
LG Aristo 2: Well, I'll go back a little bit. I was in when I went to rehab. I was in there and I had to take my domestic violence class over because I kept getting invites when I was in there.
LG Aristo 2: But I, my main point is learning how to communicate. I don't communicate well.
LG Aristo 2: Okay. Um, but other than that. I'm just working. I guess after being by myself and like my elderly and stuff. I've always visit them grocery shopping
LG Aristo 2: So I really didn't have friends or had to deal with other women really outside. And if it was, it was just at the office high and by so to have to sit there eight hours and then
LG Aristo 2: Just the gossip. I'm like, I'm almost 50 I don't like to hear this shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got you, I got you, I got you, I got you. Okay. Well, I love, love, love on low working with communication. I'm so excited because there are there are some distinct skills that you can quickly pick up. Try and right away, play with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: feel empowered.
LG Aristo 2: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, about harnessing right, all of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you've got this initial response. And if we put the psychology aside and I just do a quick little blast and I just say, okay, there's a threat response happening to you happens instantaneous this whatever this is. This ignorant. Man, this bitchy woman, whatever. This thing is this
Gwenevere Abriel: Complaining whatever, whatever it is, right, this satisfied customer
LG Aristo 2: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: They're all over, but it has nothing to do with you. They're going to be dissatisfied when they go to the laundromat, they're going to be dissatisfied when they go to Walmart. So they're just gonna spread their misery and you have a right
LG Aristo 2: To say happy. Yes, I've been really, really trying
LG Aristo 2: When I was talking to Jessica.
LG Aristo 2: I think the thing that hit home with me and we never kind of went back to it.
LG Aristo 2: Because it was really hard for me.
LG Aristo 2: Was my childhood. Oh, okay. Yes, my mom and she wanted me to write her a letter and I told her that was one of the hardest things for me to do.
LG Aristo 2: Was sit down and try to write a letter. So we kind of and then other things happened in between. So we kind of got sidetracked from it and then with the new job and all that, but then my mom got sick. And when she was in the hospital. I kind of
LG Aristo 2: I felt bad, but I couldn't be there, like I normally would be there for her like I would usually always jump run go be at the hospital, take care of her.
LG Aristo 2: This time I went and saw her once
LG Aristo 2: And my brother and I get along better and we were we we stayed that Friday way she went into her surgery was a week on and off for her gallbladder.
LG Aristo 2: But she was a really bad alcoholic. When I was growing up.
LG Aristo 2: So in drugs so that that was just really hard for me. Um, and since I brought that up to just come one of our first meetings Jonas, it was back in December.
LG Aristo 2: I, I didn't know it kind of threw me off, kind of, because I've never even when I was in rehab and I did do my counseling. Um, it was some I avoided the whole time.
LG Aristo 2: I avoided it the whole entire time. And I still am, and I think I still am avoiding it.
LG Aristo 2: But I she did want me to sit down and write a letter to her that was just going to be between me and her and that was it.
LG Aristo 2: It was one of the hardest things I sat there one night for two hours, and I could not do it. I just broke down and cried. So it goes deep, but I think that's a lot of it and then just when me my husband went through our stuff, you know, they get. I have a lot of PTSD from that.
LG Aristo 2: From our years because
Gwenevere Abriel: Was there abuse, physical, emotional, sexual with your husband.
LG Aristo 2: I think it was more mental. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got you.
LG Aristo 2: Okay. Yeah, little
Gwenevere Abriel: This is setting setting some general goal setting for me as I'm listening to you. And what I'm hearing is
Gwenevere Abriel: Something really resonated when when that topic of childhood came up. There's a real honesty with you right now. It's like I might just continue to avoid it, and I will keep an eye on that because I happen to believe that indeed those early
Gwenevere Abriel: That shaping that happens when we're very young.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not a conscious thing we do it to survive. We adapt to our environment we develop certain behavioral patterns emotional regulation patterns, an identity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of you about how we are in the world we develop those when we're tiny, really tiny like you know 15 months. Okay, one years, two years old, three years old. We develop them very early on, what ends up happening is there. They're kind of still the solutions that we're using as grown women.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah yeah I I really had a hard time with that and and she
LG Aristo 2: She was great. Jessica was somebody that I finally trusted to talk to
LG Aristo 2: And. And finally, I was in denial since 2016. And then this last June or July 30 I got hit head on in that from there I went downhill.
LG Aristo 2: I tried killing myself and just stuff like that. So it was just kind of a rough year and then now I'm now getting back into things, and finally getting to talk you know I
LG Aristo 2: I'm accepting it more than I did in 2016 and then
Gwenevere Abriel: The denial was that childhood or the addictive behavior. What are you
LG Aristo 2: What are you going to go, I think, oh, both of it pretty much
LG Aristo 2: I even though my doctor was writing me the meds. I was still abusing them. Okay. But when I went into rehab.
LG Aristo 2: I was the only thing I was on was valued at the time of Ben's those I guess they call them. That's all I was on when I went into rehab so mine was a lot of the mental to get through of my anger and aggression and the fighting.
LG Aristo 2: Because right away. I'll just hit somebody and not think twice, and I've learned you know that's not the right way to go. No, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, wait, so
Gwenevere Abriel: The part of your brain that makes a decision. Is this the right thing to do. It's not online.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's online in that instance that you have this threat response right I'm just punch.
Gwenevere Abriel: That the prefrontal cortex is just not online. It's just not
Gwenevere Abriel: And so the work that I want to do with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will create space which is time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which are breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: keeping busy and distraction is useful, but in the moment when someone
Gwenevere Abriel: Looks like someone who has disrespected you offended you. Well, I don't know what your triggers are I'll find those out from us. I listened to your stories in the future.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what we want to do. And that's what this therapy can do is create time
Gwenevere Abriel: And with that time. You know what ends up happening. The frontal part of your brain gets blood
Gwenevere Abriel: It means all the parts of your brain is working and this one up here, the one that can problem solve that can look ahead and say, if I do this, and this, I might get a positive outcome if I punched in the nose or smoker.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a bad idea because then I might get arrested and then I'll help lose my freedom and oh what a hassle. I don't want to go to court. I don't want to do that. So this is the part right that's the part of the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that is nowhere took a sin when that an angel is getting activated, it's instantaneous
LG Aristo 2: I had to walk away. I have and I went to my boss. And I said, you know,
LG Aristo 2: Back in the day, I would have just naive and ask questions. And so I think I've matured a lot that way.
LG Aristo 2: But I just tried to ignore it. But like, they said if there's a problem. Bring it up, but it's stupid petty gossip stuff. It doesn't even need to be brought up beverages needs to quit talking and do what they're supposed to work. So
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're touching on and I'm so glad you have the awareness that there are current activating events.
Gwenevere Abriel: That are happening into personally you've touched on a lot of things that we can work on. And what I want to go over with you is starting to and I usually do these things right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the first few sessions, when I need people is just to make sure that they have right those emotional coping skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I want to go into resourcing skills which would get us ready for long term sort of work, dealing with that childhood stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's all stuff you can use right away, but it's also an investment in long term sort of treatment of of some complex trauma. So let me ask you this is just a check in. There's no way for you to do your part wrong.
LG Aristo 2: You're the guy that
Gwenevere Abriel: You did ever do anything wrong not I'm not in my world. Okay.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is just a checking because I don't want to waste your time. I will go review something if you already know if that's the only reason why I'm checking in.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to know if I said diaphragm matic breathing square breathing or box breathing. If you would be able to tell me what that is or how to do it.
LG Aristo 2: Like no, I don't.
Um,
LG Aristo 2: Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because this is so cool. You know, because you already, you already have this breath, you already know, like everybody says, take a deep breath and calm down. Well, okay, whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Button, there is science behind this particular type of breathing. It's not this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sitting earlier with this thing out of here. Most people breeze up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Short fast breath. Now, what that message that sends to the brain is oh oh it's go time. We've got to be ready for fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or flight.
Gwenevere Abriel: heart racing all of the blood is in our large muscle groups, we are ready to defend ourselves right
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. What I'm going to show you first I'm going to tell you about it. Then I'm going to model it for you. And then we're going to do it together.
LG Aristo 2: Because
Gwenevere Abriel: I have a all of the little tricks that I've got this is the one
Gwenevere Abriel: That created this thing time
Gwenevere Abriel: And guess what you need.
LG Aristo 2: Time each
Gwenevere Abriel: Time because stimulus and response. Screw you. Right. And we don't
Gwenevere Abriel: In between there. We just need that fraction of a second. And guess what we can do it with the breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: It signals a message up to the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, it's not life or death. This is just an idiot, I'm talking to, ah, it's in complete contradiction to whatever thought you're having
Gwenevere Abriel: That initial sort of impulse, like when I was in danger. It's a complete contradiction. When we do this particular reading. Then I'm gonna go over with you and that's what we want it sends a message to the brain. We are not in danger and off heart rate can go down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't need to be in distress, and guess what happens all the blood that was in the large muscle groups ready to run or fight now makes it to which part of the brain do we need the prefrontal cortex. We need that one that was the one that goes
Gwenevere Abriel: Girl, you're not worth my time mess. I need my freedom. You're an idiot. You're always give me anything I say to you now is going to make a damn difference
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, okay, so we need that part of the brain online. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: The science very quickly. If I lose you. I'll be saying this as many or as little times as you want. But the basic so that you get that it doesn't require you believing in it for this to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, so in our body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is what's called a Vegas nerve, it goes. It's called the wandering nerve. It goes brain goes to our face goes to our ears goes to our throat heart chest guts, spleen, all of our viscera. It's called all of our organs.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I teach you the I'll call it belly breathing, because this way you can remember that it's the belly expanding that makes all the difference. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I say that it is that deep full long breath that activates the Vegas nerve. This is what I mean when you inhale and it goes where as if a balloon. We're expanding in your belly and it's not short appear. Most people you'll know a short little breath when your shoulders do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's not the deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: You may be doing that, but that's not what makes the difference. What makes the difference is this and your shoulders will move
Gwenevere Abriel: What will happen is you expand that belly. It's as if a balloon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right expands in the belly. So if you're filling it with air.
Gwenevere Abriel: And here's what happens when you do this really different kind of breathing. We knew how to do it. We were babies. Maybe you could picture that little belly kind of go and work with a little belly moving up and down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we stopped doing it as adults we just do this short little tight breath up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what happens when I have this this belly breath it smashes down on the diaphragm it smashes down on all those Oregon's below it. And guess what it does.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's
Gwenevere Abriel: It signals that Vegas nerve and it goes like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Up to the brain. And you know what it says in complete contradiction to the mind which is saying, oh, this new this girl needs to shut up. I'm going to smack the stupid out of her. Okay, so that's going on right this breath. This kind of breath says
Gwenevere Abriel: She's not a danger to us.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because no one can breathe like that when they're about to
Write
Gwenevere Abriel: It.
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel me
Gwenevere Abriel: complete contradiction. We need that contradiction. We need it fast. Okay, we can pop off really quick. Right. So we need that to get up real fast so we
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a teacher to you. I'm not teaching now I'm just doing my slain. And so what happens, it goes up to the Vegas nerve sends it up to the brain says we'll wait we're good. There's actually no danger which is perceiving danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's keep breathing and then we remember up here, all that information of consequence.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of like the belief in the self, I really don't want to physically hurt someone. I don't want to hurt myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just don't want to be around idiots or people that are insulting. I just don't want to be around them. That's all it is. Oh, wait. Now, what can I do, I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Ignore walk away whatever that's later on. But those are the things that you'll be able to remember up here. Your whole brain will be online.
LG Aristo 2: The and that's how I feel like I don't know how to communicate, but boy, I sure have a mouthful. When it comes time to
LG Aristo 2: I know you and I've been better like now at work, like say for example, the girl. One of them went in the next morning, because I was just really concentrating because it was my first night.
LG Aristo 2: That I've messed up before so I was really concentrating on my register and I was doing what I needed to do.
LG Aristo 2: She went in and I even gave her a hug, before we left that night. She went in crying to them. The next morning saying how mean I was to her and I was just like, are you kidding me. I said, watch the cameras even hundred into the night. Like, I was like, why, you know, and then it's kind of like
LG Aristo 2: She's, she's the one that does the gossiping, but doesn't want to be involved in it kind of BS.
LG Aristo 2: So, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You're
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's stay right here on this belly breathing. Let's make sure you come away with this so that it's yours forever.
LG Aristo 2: Okay, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Own this
Gwenevere Abriel: Because wisdom you get time time to remember skills which you and I haven't gone over yet. That's going to be fun. I'm going to teach all kinds of fun things will do role plays love a good time.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll be able to handle this woman, it should be like, who is this woman I'm working. I don't even know.
I know
LG Aristo 2: But you
Gwenevere Abriel: won't remember them.
Gwenevere Abriel: In
Gwenevere Abriel: An anxious body you want
LG Aristo 2: And I agree to that I there's there's situations that I've gotten in there. I'm just like, and then after I calm down. I'm like, what was I thinking
LG Aristo 2: So let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep teaching. I'm going to
LG Aristo 2: Sleep so
Gwenevere Abriel: I just gave you the physiology. Do you notice that it doesn't, it's not a psychological trick. It is physiology.
Gwenevere Abriel: You do not have to believe me when I say this is going to work. It just works because it's like you have to tell your hard to work. No. It just does.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the parasympathetic nervous system sympathetic is fight or flight parasympathetic nervous system is that Vegas nerve pulling the break.
Gwenevere Abriel: Putting the freeze on it. Okay. Down regulating the heart rate and the rapid breast. The demand for oxygen is decreased and we calm down. It's a fact all of our bodies have it. If you don't, right, because we can't live with that all the time.
LG Aristo 2: It's bad. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the cortisol. This rushing around really bad for us. So now let's go in. I want to go into teaching it. You ready
Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: For so I'm going to teach, then I'll show you how to do it. And we'll do it together. Okay, first one I'm just going to do some teaching. So, just listen to kind of watch me you don't feel compelled to do it, but you're welcome to do whatever you want and no way for you to do it wrong. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so this is the basics, the basics are this. It's an inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, paying attention. The whole time goes in.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you expand that balloon in the belly, right, not with the shoulders up what's different is that you're also using that kind of concept that's really trendy right now mindfulness
Gwenevere Abriel: We pay attention to the tactile experience of those little nose hairs wiggling around and we feel that cool air really cold air apparently
Gwenevere Abriel: Going into the nose and down and filling up that long. So it isn't just know it's specifically for seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of inhaling through the nose with that tactile touch awareness, who aware of how that airfield, and you're expanding that belly and then guess what you hold your breath for four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then out of your mouth very deliberately, it will be four seconds of
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 in through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 and then it's
All 321
Gwenevere Abriel: Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat belly hold 321
Hold three
Push it on
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold three one. Now, just to review. It's an inhale through the nose. Pop quiz can't get it wrong. This is just to see what sticking because there's one thing
Gwenevere Abriel: That can't be skipped the one thing that pulls that they will break the one that actually sends that signal up to the brain. This part can't be skipped with the breath. Do you remember what part that is
LG Aristo 2: When you breathe in through your nostrils. Don't lift your shoulders that one.
LG Aristo 2: And then you read that hold it and then breathe out, you
Gwenevere Abriel: You can forget all that
Gwenevere Abriel: You can be mouth craven girl.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're gonna be mouth praising the whole time, you can get all that your shoulders can be. You can be blue. You can do whatever you want. Nope, he got to have the air in the bottom of your long
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, can't skip that one. That's why we're going to call it belly breathing, because I think it's going to help you remember no joke.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can't stay here. Guess what organs aren't getting smushed so that, so. Oh, a world K anybody that brings deep like that there's no danger and sends a signal we have to make that belly balloon happen to smash the organs to send the signal to the brain. It this body's not in danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: can't skip it. I don't care if you're not free don't care.
LG Aristo 2: Just breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the belly, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Now we're going to put a pause.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is so important that we're going to put all the instruction aside and all you're going to do is put your hand on your belly and see if you can even do it.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to share with you. I don't find this easy. I found this so difficult. I've gotten in the habit of it, but it's hard. So first become aware of your shoulders. Notice where they are.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I want you to push all the air out, push it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: inhale through your nose expanding your belly, as if it was full of air, push, push, push, just the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you notice your shoulders.
Yes, I could feel like
Gwenevere Abriel: I told you this is hard.
LG Aristo 2: It is
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't look at me. I want you to look at your own your own pause right there on your tummy and just just see if you inhale, can you make a balloon in there.
LG Aristo 2: Yes. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when I didn't, you know I push it all out. And then I go and I can pop out my hands.
LG Aristo 2: Can you pop yours out. Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: With an eel has to be an idiot.
LG Aristo 2: Um, it's hard, but yes.
LG Aristo 2: It's hard.
LG Aristo 2: It's so
Gwenevere Abriel: Hard and like that.
LG Aristo 2: Nobody. Yeah, that's a good, that's something that with my hypertension anyway.
LG Aristo 2: I get so wound up
LG Aristo 2: And
LG Aristo 2: Any. Great. Yeah, so it, it helps a whole bunch. When I can just and there's times I have walked away. And I've been the bigger person. But yeah, this House, this will be good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I left. We're going to do it together and
Gwenevere Abriel: Get to have an experiential
Gwenevere Abriel: Benefit of it. So what we'll do a couple of things. First, I'm going to review it again because it's a lot to take in.
Gwenevere Abriel: First, we're going to do it with what's called fidelity, which means you do it. Just the way you're supposed to. But the truth is, you can use whatever counts, you want
Gwenevere Abriel: And then remember
Gwenevere Abriel: That remember the one thing that there's, you've got to absolutely have his belly breathe.
LG Aristo 2: Elliot good belly.
LG Aristo 2: belly breathing. That's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, the fourth hour, blah blah blah, whatever, you know, over time, I've noticed my inhales about four seconds I hold it for maybe three, but my exhale is like six
LG Aristo 2: Six. Yeah, I've noticed that too.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my god.
LG Aristo 2: Isn't that great came out and
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually that that exhales a beautiful one. So, stretch it out.
LG Aristo 2: It's doing a great job to bring that
Gwenevere Abriel: Relax muscle until the body. We're okay because you can't do that when you're in a threat response.
LG Aristo 2: You don't have any air.
LG Aristo 2: You'd have any air.
LG Aristo 2: You have enough dl, but that's about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we'll do it with fidelity. But you and I, we both get, you get to make it deeply personal make it your own style.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll eventually right we'll have some neat imagery that is going with it. And then while that frontal lobe is coming online.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then we're going to have these new skills, you're going to learn. We'll have some meat imagery that when you around toxic people you can maintain the integrity that you're proud of that. You can walk away from it feeling like
Gwenevere Abriel: Nobody can touch me. I'm like em untouchable. This is fantastic. Look at me. Right. I mean, that's just
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to be able to move through these people where you're in charge of how you react. Wouldn't that be nice.
LG Aristo 2: Yes, yes.
LG Aristo 2: Yes. Amen to that. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to do a little bit of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I told you the physiological benefit and you're probably going to find out the second benefit of it after we actually do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's make it relevant. Let's take you've got lots of little inner personal things going on in your head, something that just happened at work.
Gwenevere Abriel: That hypocrisy that double standard. The gossiping, the mixed message the toxic whatever this woman is doing. Maybe it's someone else I want you to just, you don't even have to tell me just sort of hold it in your awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: untrustworthy maybe my
LG Aristo 2: She says one thing does another like
Well,
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, I'm too old for this, though, but
LG Aristo 2: Now it's hard as I went to high school out here. So there's a lot of people that's that's a rough one, so
Gwenevere Abriel: We're pulling it out of the
Gwenevere Abriel: Hippocampus we're putting it in to what we call working memory. There's a lot of memories you have a campus holes lots and lots of memories from childhood, it stores it all. It's amazing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But just for now I want you to picture just sort of one piece, maybe a yucky piece of maybe seeing her do something or whatever and just, just notice how your body responds to just even thinking about that negative event. Just pay attention. I
LG Aristo 2: Heart just start pattering right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here we go, exhale all the air out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now, inhale through the nose, big belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 exhale it out.
Hold 321 inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 exhale it deliberately all out flat, flat belly flat, all of it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here we go, and hold it all out for 321 bring it into the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: A balloon belly hold 321 push it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale feeling every little bit of it to those nose and nostrils and hold 321 push it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Laptop five five flat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pull it all out for 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice big belly and hold it in there 321 let it all go all in it. Go, go, go, go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then breathe it in through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it in there for 321 not deliberately pierces lips and push it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 breathe in through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: The balloon down there. Hold it for 321 push it all.
Gwenevere Abriel: See ya. Bye bye.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold it out 321 and now on your own count inside in quietly inside yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just run cycles through on your own.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good get that big belly for us down in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh.
Awkward.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, I have a lot more air coming out, like you said,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, real quick.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to know.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you think about anything else.
LG Aristo 2: No, I did real good on my breathing and I just feel like it's just I feel good. Here, like there's a weight lifted me yeah yeah
LG Aristo 2: So robotic
Gwenevere Abriel: Your brain did it think about anything else, or were you concentrating on this breathing.
LG Aristo 2: It just didn't make me think of anything else you know I was breathing. I wasn't really thinking of anything like went away with the breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right, so here you just found out the second I told you about the physiology, the Vegas nerve that it's a bagel break the parasympathetic nervous system. You just found out real time what the second one is
LG Aristo 2: Not having to speak.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's distracting. This is so hard to do.
LG Aristo 2: I like the challenge though.
LG Aristo 2: Love the challenge.
LG Aristo 2: It's hard. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
LG Aristo 2: And I catch myself doing my shoulders to but then I remember. Oh no, the bell and then once I get the belly. Back then it goes right back into the
Gwenevere Abriel: It takes all of your concentration. That's why I said, trying to list fidelity. First, right, because it will distract your mind from what if this woman gives me a hard time again tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't start analyzing
Gwenevere Abriel: Your brain wants to do one thing. Well, let's focus on, especially since you just learned something new is the brain loves learning new stuff. Oh my gosh, it's like, oh, there's a problem to solve a man it was
Gwenevere Abriel: It's awesome. So you made that happen. You did two things.
LG Aristo 2: And I asked them. Yep. So you
Gwenevere Abriel: Already that you know what's neat about what you told me soon as you walked in here. You said I took a deep breath and kept busy did my distraction. You already are remembering the breath. Now when you walk away.
LG Aristo 2: I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: So focused on that because you're going to want to like, come back to group and be like, I did it so well and it was awesome. And my shoulders were like little frozen icebergs and I was great. Okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be thinking about this turkey. This
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't want you there. We want this is your life, don't waste a minute of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right ignorant people
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to enjoy your
Gwenevere Abriel: Moments. And this breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: gives you time to remember
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't need any of these little people this small I don't either. Okay. And then over time, you will have more and more skills, about how to communicate. There's cute little trips to use with dumb people
LG Aristo 2: I hear ya I hear ya. It's just crazy but
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so you just learned a super important skill with you forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wish they taught it to us when we were kids in school. I wish our parents taught it to us. I wish we had the science, the science, the fact that that Vegas nerve that the
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a dorsal and ventral nerve one smile and aid one's not blah, blah, blah. Anyway, we didn't know about it. Yeah. Think about how many religions or cultures, talk about the breath. We knew without knowing the science behind it. It's the right thing to do.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It regulates us. It says
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay. I'm here in this body. I'm in this moment, I'm okay. In this moment.
LG Aristo 2: It's amazing. That's what felt good, even just a weight that went off my chest, it, it went away just even because I tried thinking about it, but you don't even have time to think about it because you're busy breathing. That's awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we want to keep it difficult, so it occupies the line. So we want it to be difficult. So, and you may challenge yourself. Oh, this month. I'm just going to do it on for the next time, I'm a try. Five, you know, challenge yourself because the brain likes that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll say so.
LG Aristo 2: Great job. Thank you.
LG Aristo 2: Thank you. Thank you. I'm all excited to try it now. I can't wait to go to work tomorrow.
LG Aristo 2: So we
Gwenevere Abriel: Have a little bit of time left. So let's shift gears and let's do I want to start to do some some preparation and use a liberal look these these couple things. I'm gonna do with you are super quick.
Gwenevere Abriel: But they'll really add to, to having some resourcing and preparation for future work. So has there ever been a time where it would have been nice for you to what people call compartmentalize and emotion or a reaction or a memory, like, oh, I don't really want to deal with this right now.
LG Aristo 2: Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yes. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's right now create an imagery around that and I call it a container and this container is your emotional container and we're going to use it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Lots of different ways but super handy. It's going to stay in this particular section in my note and I can reference it if you ever forget it. I'll have it written right there in the middle.
Gwenevere Abriel: And here are the requirements.
Gwenevere Abriel: This container.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can be whatever you want. Whatever your imagination comes up with, but it's got to be big enough strong enough to hold all your emotional stuff kind of have a lid on it. Got a lot of some kind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Finger well nomination or key.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what comes to mind. Give yourself time to think.
LG Aristo 2: I think what the hardest thing is is when we go around my kids. And it seems like there's always tension like
LG Aristo 2: I'm and it's usually me that that has the issue of being around. I don't know if that makes sense. That's what came to mind.
LG Aristo 2: Okay, now
Gwenevere Abriel: We know what
LG Aristo 2: You just told me the
Gwenevere Abriel: Content of what's going in the container. Now I want you to actually this is actually telling me the container. I'll give you an example, someone said a mason jar. Another person said a safe. One person said a cargo.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you call those things that go on a train ride a train car that's also goes on a cargo ship to India or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: One person said just a large wooden the the container was a large jewelry box or a chest like
LG Aristo 2: Tupperware. I just think of big plastic Tupperware. I don't know why, and put the lid on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're gonna. So remember, we're just learning each other here. So, so really tuned into yourself. So here's the thing. Notice the requirement.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wants you to picture that tension.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember the requirement big enough strong enough to hold all your stuff. We're just talking about tension with a family there might be a lot and it might want to get out is that Tupperware big enough and strong enough for all your emotional stuff.
LG Aristo 2: Mm hmm. No, I had to put it in a safe a metal box. I'll put a safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, now we're talking
LG Aristo 2: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you can see it if it wanted to get out. You've already. You've already kind of got locked it.
LG Aristo 2: In there.
LG Aristo 2: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, how big, how big would it be
LG Aristo 2: Um, it's pretty big will put a staff floor safe. What a lock on it. Yeah.
Yep Okay floor safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we'll call it pretty big cool and then we're Let's do another one. This will call the container.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now let's go do another one super handy to have when we want to get a little bit of distance. This is similar. This is similar
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to give you some examples of what I want to do now, which is I want. See if you can come up. This is the creative mind the right side of your brain when you had to kind of come up with the safe that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Same kind of thing. So I want you to come up with imagery for a distancing metaphor. So I'll give you an example, recently this week, people have been coming up with this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Spaceship takes off. I have a negative, whatever, and I want it gone like 20 seconds ago off it goes into outer space. Can't even see it anymore and off it goes. Some people are like, yeah, I'm not in any hurry. You know, it's kind of on a cruise ship and it's like
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Slowly moving
LG Aristo 2: Like, Oh, that's right. If
Gwenevere Abriel: I needed to be a little faster that some people are in a car, they're going to play and passing them and they look in the rearview mirror and they're like, Oh, I can't even see it anymore. It
LG Aristo 2: Like that one.
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, well,
LG Aristo 2: You
LG Aristo 2: Yeah, the rearview mirror that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: But let's do it. I'm like, Okay.
LG Aristo 2: I like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then like I can't even see that
LG Aristo 2: It for yeah
LG Aristo 2: I like that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and you're heading in this direction and it's going the other way.
LG Aristo 2: That's even better. I like it.
LG Aristo 2: See, yes. We didn't want to be. Yeah, right. Okay, so now we've got distancing man.
Gwenevere Abriel: For so you'll hear me refer to it that way. And it's going to be car driving opposite direction seen further
Gwenevere Abriel: And further own way and rear view mirror.
LG Aristo 2: Yep. Sounds good.
LG Aristo 2: That's awesome. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so the idea is
Gwenevere Abriel: There's also going to be will be developing
Gwenevere Abriel: What I end up calling sort of your team and it'll be and you're welcome to if you want to set yourself some homework I love your homework kind of gal. What you can do is you can either on your own or when we meet again will be visualizing
Gwenevere Abriel: Protective quality either real or imagined.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some people said the Hulk. Some people say my uncle sale. One was imagined. Right. It's an hour. That's not real. Well, I guess it depends.
Gwenevere Abriel: On you. But
Gwenevere Abriel: One is my uncle is a real life. I actually felt his protective nature he only wanted for my safety, most people that I work with.
Gwenevere Abriel: They have a hard time finding real people. Because the whole point of a part of their, their childhood experience was a failure of their caregivers to protect them. So don't give yourself a hard time if you can't come up with anyone real that's fine you can be from a book, a movie, TV.
LG Aristo 2: My grandfather was the one
LG Aristo 2: Your grandfather and my grandmother. Yeah, that's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll put in there right now right now okay and then do you're already clipping along. I'll go ahead and write it in. So this is coming too quickly. Let's just put it in there. Then let's let's keep going. It's only two more.
LG Aristo 2: What
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you think about a protective quality real or imagined of someone who is nurturing. This is someone who wants your growth your development, pure and simple nothing back. They don't want, they just they want for you to be your authentic self.
LG Aristo 2: My daughter Michaela my youngest
Beautiful. And let me just real quick. Up here put grandma, grandpa.
Gwenevere Abriel: He said, Grandpa first right
Mm hmm.
LG Aristo 2: Okay, Grandpa.
Gwenevere Abriel: And grab also but but the real this this protective active, then this one is for nurturing
Gwenevere Abriel: Your turn, your turn. There you go.
LG Aristo 2: Not heard
Gwenevere Abriel: Michaela arm again. How old is she,
LG Aristo 2: Good 16
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, she's really got a minor on now DUNGEY
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, yeah.
LG Aristo 2: Very much so.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a good thing. Good to know and feel her own agency. So last one is
Gwenevere Abriel: Something that the imagery, real or imagined of a wise figure
LG Aristo 2: Hmm.
LG Aristo 2: I don't see my husband's wise. He's very Paul. He's wise when it comes to he helps me get through.
LG Aristo 2: Those kinds of things being wise. Okay. But other than that, I can't think of anybody else.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to go with what tell me
LG Aristo 2: Know, that's why I was just gonna say he's, he's the one my husband. And so when I could think of.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's perfect. So we you've done a lot of work today. Bravo.
LG Aristo 2: Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's take a look at our schedule and see what works for future appointments and you've been apparently in this program for a little while so
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: More than welcome to meet weekly or you can do a bi weekly or what would you like to do
LG Aristo 2: Let's do it.
LG Aristo 2: Weekly right now. Okay, we'll go weekly. And then, and if it's Wednesdays at this time. If you have openings or if anytime before I go to work at 130
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay. All right.
LG Aristo 2: And I have group on Mondays with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're right, it can't be Mondays. So let me just, I'm looking ahead, I think we're okay for 10 o'clock on March 4 Wednesday, March forth, it'll feel just like this.
LG Aristo 2: Okay, yeah.
LG Aristo 2: And I'll put that down. Cool. March 4 at 10:10am. Okay, good.
LG Aristo 2: And if you ever need to switch it or do bike weekly if you do have people that are full, or if
LG Aristo 2: You need somebody else. I don't mind doing the bi weekly
LG Aristo 2: But I kind of like to, if I could do weekly until we get to know each other a little better than then maybe we can move to bi weekly like once we see how things go. Yeah.
Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: It might end up being the reverse. What might it might be. You get to know me we trust each other right
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you might start diving in deeper into these interventions and you might want to stay because with weekly because
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you might say, Oh that was so intense. I need more time to marinate right more time to let that really saturate and I need to sit with that a little longer so whichever happens for you either direction is fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now I got a lot of people in my case, I've got a pretty decent I'm managing it pretty well.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's, again, there's no wrong way for you to do this just pay attention to yourself if something comes up. I'm interested
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body has a specific reaction, emotionally, you have a reaction A belief about yourself. Big emotion. I'm interested in all of those experiences in the whole body. I want to know about. Okay.
LG Aristo 2: Sounds good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, I will see you on Monday is their medication attached to today. Are you already have it all the way to grow.
LG Aristo 2: No, I'm good, till Monday at group.
Fantastic.
LG Aristo 2: Yes. You too. And Dr. Our mind just like to know when we meet
LG Aristo 2: On Monday, send him some okay
LG Aristo 2: That'll work.
LG Aristo 2: Okay, thank you so much and I'll see you next
Gwenevere Abriel: Or on Monday. Monday. Sounds good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
LG Aristo 2: All right. Bye bye.
Okay.